CHARTER.md, before:

# Firecracker Charter

## Mission

Our mission is to enable secure, multi-tenant, minimal-overhead
execution of container and function workloads.

## Tenets (unless you know better ones)

These tenets guide Firecracker's development:

1. **Built-In Security**: We provide compute security barriers that enable
   multi-tenant workloads, and cannot be mistakenly disabled by customers.
   Customer workloads are simultaneously considered sacred (shall not be
   touched) and malicious (shall be defended against).
1. **Light-weight Virtualization**: We focus on transient or stateless workloads
   over long-running or persistent workloads. Firecracker's hardware resources
   overhead is known and guaranteed.
1. **Minimalist in Features**: If it's not clearly required for our mission, we
   won't build it. We maintain a single implementation per capability.
1. **Compute Oversubscription**: All of the hardware compute resources exposed
   by Firecracker to guests can be securely oversubscribed.

## Contributions & Project Roles

All contributions must align with this charter and follow Firecracker's
[contribution process](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Firecracker [maintainers](MAINTAINERS.md) merge contributions into the
master branch and create Firecracker releases. Maintainers are also
subject to the mission and tenets outlined above. Anyone may submit
and review contributions.

Commit message:

charter: updated tenets
Adjusted the Firecracker tenets based on what we have learned over the
past two years.

Signed-off-by: Radu Weiss <raduweis@amazon.com>

CHARTER.md, after:

# Firecracker Charter

## Mission

Our mission is to enable secure, multi-tenant, minimal-overhead
execution of container and function workloads.

## Tenets (unless you know better ones)

These tenets guide Firecracker's development:

1. **Built-In Security**: We provide compute security barriers that 
   enable multi-tenant workloads, and cannot be mistakenly disabled by
   customers. Customer workloads are simultaneously considered sacred
   (shall not be touched) and malicious (shall be defended against).
   We continuously invest in defense in depth and maintain mechanisms
   that ensure security best practices.
1. **Light-Weight Virtualization**: We prioritize measuring
   Firecracker's hardware overhead in the dimensions that are important
   for our customers, and we strive to make this overhead negligible.
1. **Minimalist in Features**: If it's not clearly required for our
   mission, we won't build it. We maintain a single implementation per
   capability, and deprecate obsolete implementations; resolving
   exceptions is a high priority issue.
1. **Compute Oversubscription**: All of the hardware compute resources
   exposed by Firecracker to guests can be securely oversubscribed.

## Contributions & Project Roles

All contributions must align with this charter and follow Firecracker's
[contribution process](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Firecracker [maintainers](MAINTAINERS.md) merge contributions into the
master branch and create Firecracker releases. Maintainers are also
subject to the mission and tenets outlined above. Anyone may submit
and review contributions.
