docs/mmds.md, before:

# microVM Metadata Service

The Firecracker microVM Metadata Service (MMDS) is a mutable data store which
implements a simplified data path, made possible by the unique setting found in
Firecracker. The MMDS consists of three major logical components: the backend,
the data store, and the minimalist HTTP/TCP/IPv4 stack (named *Dumbo*). They
all exist within the Firecracker process, and outside the KVM boundary; the
first is a part of the API server, the data store is a global entity for a
single microVM, and the last is a part of the device model.
When the API server is disabled by passing `--no-api` parameter to Firecracker,
MMDS is no longer available.

## The MMDS backend

Users can add/update the MMDS contents via the backend, which is accessible
through the Firecracker API. Setting the initial contents involves a `PUT`
request to the `/mmds` API resource, with a JSON body that describes the
desired data store structure and contents. Here's a JSON example:

```json
{
"latest": {
            "meta-data": {
                "ami-id": "ami-12345678",
                "reservation-id": "r-fea54097",
                "local-hostname": "ip-10-251-50-12.ec2.internal",
                "public-hostname": "ec2-203-0-113-25.compute-1.amazonaws.com",
                "network": {
                    "interfaces": {
                        "macs": {
                            "02:29:96:8f:6a:2d": {
                                "device-number": "13345342",
                                "local-hostname": "localhost",
                                "subnet-id": "subnet-be9b61d"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
}
```

Queries from the guest (more on them a bit later) will be applied to this
structure. For example, a `GET` request for
`http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/ami-id` will return a response body
consisting of *ami-12345678*. The MMDS contents can be updated either via a
subsequent `PUT` (that replaces them entirely), or using `PATCH` requests,
which feed the JSON body into the JSON Merge Patch functionality, based on
[RFC 7396](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7396). MMDS related API requests come
from the host, which is considered a trusted environment, so there are no
checks beside the kind of validation done by HTTP server and `serde-json` (the
crate used to de/serialize JSON). Most importantly, there is currently no
maximum size bound for MMDS contents; the users are free to provide arbitrarily
large inputs. However, the HTTP server is likely to encounter/become a
bottleneck first, which means any API resource may have this potential issue.

### Example use case: credential rotation

For this example, the guest expects to find some sort of credentials (say, a
secret access key) by issuing a `GET` request to
`http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/credentials/secret-key`. Most similar
use cases will encompass the following sequence of steps:

1. Some agent running on the host sends a `PUT` request with the initial
   contents of the MMDS, using the Firecracker API. This most likely takes
   place before the microVM starts running, but may also happen at a later
   time. Guest MMDS requests which arrive prior to contents being available
   receive a *NotFound* response.
1. The contents are saved to the data store.
1. The guest sends a `GET` request for the secret key, which is intercepted by
   the device model.
1. The device model queries the data store, and gets the value associated with
   the key.
1. An HTTP response is assembled and sent back to the guest.

After a while, the host agent decides to rotate the secret key. It does so by
updating the data store with a new value. This can be done via a `PUT` request
to the `/mmds` API resource, which replaces everything, or with a `PATCH`
request that only touches the desired key. This effectively triggers the first
two steps again.

The guest reads the new secret key, going one more time through the last three
steps. This can happen after a notification from the host agent, or discovered
via periodic polling, or some other mechanism. Since access to the data store
is thread safe, the guest can only receive either the old version, or the new
version of the key, and not some intermediate state caused by the update.

## The data store

This is a global data structure, currently referenced using a global variable,
that represents the strongly-typed version of JSON-based user input describing
the MMDS contents. It leverages the recursive
[Value](https://docs.serde.rs/serde_json/value/enum.Value.html) type exposed by
`serde-json`. It can only be accessed from thread-safe contexts.

## Dumbo

The *Dumbo* HTTP/TCP/IPv4 network stack handles guest HTTP requests heading
towards *169.254.169.254*. Before going into *Dumbo* specifics, it's worth
going through a brief description of the Firecracker network device model.
Firecracker only offers Virtio-net paravirtualized devices to guests. Drivers
running in the guest OS use ring buffers in a shared memory area to communicate
with the device model when sending or receiving frames. The device model
associates each guest network device with a TAP device on the host.
Frames sent by the guest are written to the TAP fd, and frames read from the
TAP fd are handed over to the guest.

The *Dumbo* stack can be instantiated once for every network device, and is
disabled by default. It can be enabled by setting the value of the
`allow_mmds_requests` parameter to `true` in the API request body used to
attach a guest network device. Once enabled, the stack taps into the
aforementioned data path. Each frame coming from the guest is examined to
determine whether it should be processed by *Dumbo* instead of being written to
the TAP fd. Also, every time there is room in the ring buffer to hand over
frames to the guest, the device model first checks whether *Dumbo* has anything
to send; if not, it resumes getting frames from the TAP fd (when available).

We chose to implement our own solution, instead of leveraging existing
libraries/implementations, because responding to guest MMDS queries in the
context of Firecracker is amenable to a wide swath of simplifications.
First of all, we only need to handle `GET` requests, which require a bare-bones
HTTP 1.1 server, without support for most headers and more advanced features
like chunking. Also, we get to choose what subset of HTTP is used when building
responses. Moving lower in the stack, we are dealing with TCP connections over
what is essentially a point-to-point link, that seldom loses packets and does
not reorder them. This means we can do away with congestion control
(we only use flow control), complex reception logic, and support for most TCP
options/features. At this point, the layers below (Ethernet and IPv4) don't
involve much more than sanity checks of frame/packet contents.

*Dumbo* is built using both general purpose components (which we plan to offer
as part of one or more libraries), and Firecracker MMDS specific code. The
former category consists of various helper modules used to process streams of
bytes as protocol data units (Ethernet & ARP frames, IPv4 packets, and TCP
segments), a TCP handler which listens for connections while demultiplexing
incoming segments, a minimalist TCP connection endpoint implementation, and a
greatly simplified HTTP 1.1 server. The Firecracker MMDS specific code is found
in the logic which taps into the device model, and the component that parses an
HTTP request, builds a response based on MMDS contents, and finally sends back
a reply.

### MMDS Network Stack

Somewhat confusingly, this is the name of the component which taps the device
model. It has hardcoded IP (*169.254.169.254*) and MAC (*06:01:23:45:67:01*)
addresses. The latter is also used to respond to ARP requests. For every frame
coming from the guest, the following steps take place:

1. Apply a heuristic to determine whether the frame may contain an ARP request
   for the MMDS IP address, or an IPv4 packet heading towards the same address.
   There can be no false negatives. Frames that fail both checks are *rejected*
   (deferred to the device model for regular processing).
1. *Reject* invalid Ethernet frames. *Reject* valid frames if their EtherType
   is neither ARP, nor IPv4.
1. (**if EtherType == ARP**) *Reject* invalid ARP frames. *Reject* the frame if
   its target protocol address field is different from the MMDS IP address.
   Otherwise, record that an ARP request has been received (the stack only
   remembers the most recent request).
1. (**if EtherType == IPv4**) *Reject* invalid packets. *Reject* packets if
   their destination address differs from the MMDS IP address. *Drop* (stop
   processing without deferring to the device model) packets that do not carry
   TCP segments (by looking at the protocol number field). Send the rest to the
   inner TCP handler.

The current implementation does not support Ethernet 802.1Q tags, and does not
handle IP fragmentation. Tagged Ethernet frames are most likely going to be
deferred to the device model for processing, because the heuristics do not take
the presence of the tag into account. Moreover, their EtherType will not appear
to be of interest. Fragmented IP packets do not get reassembled; they are
treated as independent packets.

Whenever the guest is able to receive a frame, the device model first requests
one from the MMDS network stack associated with the current network device.

1. If an ARP request has been previously recorded, send an ARP reply and forget
   about the request.
1. If the inner TCP handler has any packets to transmit, wrap the next one into
   a frame and send it.
1. There are no MMDS related frames to send, so tell the device model to read
   from the TAP fd instead.

### TCP handler

Handles received packets that appear to carry TCP segments. Its operation is
described in the `dumbo` crate documentation. Each connection is associated
with an MMDS endpoint.

### MMDS endpoint

This component gets the byte stream from an inner TCP connection object,
identifies the boundaries of the next HTTP request, and parses it using an
HttpRequest object. For each valid `GET` request, the URI is used to identify
a key from the metadata store (like in the previous example), and a response is
built using the Firecracker implementation of HttpResponse logic, based on the
associated value, and sent back to the guest over the same connection. Each
endpoint has a fixed size receive buffer, and a variable length response buffer
(depending on the size of each response). TCP receive window semantics are used
to ensure the guest does not overrun the receive buffer during normal operation
(the connection has to drop segments otherwise). There can be at most one
response pending at any given time.

Here are more details describing what happens when a segment is received by an
MMDS endpoint (previously created when a SYN segment arrived at the TCP
handler):

1. Invoke the receive functionality of the inner connection object, and append
   any new data to the receive buffer.
1. If no response is currently pending, attempt to identify the end of the
   first request in the receive buffer. If no such boundary can be found, and
   the buffer is full, reset the inner connection (which also causes the
   endpoint itself to be subsequently removed) because the guest exceeded the
   maximum allowed request size.
1. If no response is pending, and we can identify a request in the receive
   buffer, parse it, free up the associated buffer space (also update the
   connection receive window), and build an HTTP response, which becomes the
   current pending response.
1. If a FIN segment was received, and there's no pending response, call `close`
   on the inner connection. If a valid RST is received at any time, mark the
   endpoint for removal.

When the TCP handler asks an MMDS endpoint for any segments to send, the
transmission logic of the inner connection is invoked, specifying the pending
response (when present) as the payload source.

### Connection

Connection objects are minimalist implementation of the TCP protocol. They are
used to reassemble the byte stream which carries guest HTTP requests, and to
send back segments which contain parts of the response. More details are
available in the `dumbo` crate documentation.

Commit message:

mmds: added docs and changelog entry
Added documentation about the MMDS configuration
dedicated REST API inside `mmds.md`.

Added MMDS configuration REST API description insisde
`swagger/firecracker.yaml`.

Added CHANGELOG.md entry for the new REST API.

Signed-off-by: iulianbarbu <iul@amazon.com>

docs/mmds.md, after:

# microVM Metadata Service

The Firecracker microVM Metadata Service (MMDS) is a mutable data store which
implements a simplified data path, made possible by the unique setting found in
Firecracker. The MMDS consists of three major logical components: the backend,
the data store, and the minimalist HTTP/TCP/IPv4 stack (named *Dumbo*). They
all exist within the Firecracker process, and outside the KVM boundary; the
first is a part of the API server, the data store is a global entity for a
single microVM, and the last is a part of the device model.
When the API server is disabled by passing `--no-api` parameter to Firecracker,
MMDS is no longer available.

## The MMDS backend

Users can add/update the MMDS contents via the backend, which is accessible
through the Firecracker API. Setting the initial contents involves a `PUT`
request to the `/mmds` API resource, with a JSON body that describes the
desired data store structure and contents. Here's a JSON example:

```json
{
"latest": {
            "meta-data": {
                "ami-id": "ami-12345678",
                "reservation-id": "r-fea54097",
                "local-hostname": "ip-10-251-50-12.ec2.internal",
                "public-hostname": "ec2-203-0-113-25.compute-1.amazonaws.com",
                "network": {
                    "interfaces": {
                        "macs": {
                            "02:29:96:8f:6a:2d": {
                                "device-number": "13345342",
                                "local-hostname": "localhost",
                                "subnet-id": "subnet-be9b61d"
                            }
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
}
```

Queries from the guest (more on them a bit later) will be applied to this
structure. For example, a `GET` request for
`http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/ami-id` will return a response body
consisting of *ami-12345678*. The MMDS contents can be updated either via a
subsequent `PUT` (that replaces them entirely), or using `PATCH` requests,
which feed the JSON body into the JSON Merge Patch functionality, based on
[RFC 7396](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7396). MMDS related API requests come
from the host, which is considered a trusted environment, so there are no
checks beside the kind of validation done by HTTP server and `serde-json` (the
crate used to de/serialize JSON). Most importantly, there is currently no
maximum size bound for MMDS contents; the users are free to provide arbitrarily
large inputs. However, the HTTP server is likely to encounter/become a
bottleneck first, which means any API resource may have this potential issue.

#### MMDS Configuration

Users can set up a custom IPv4 address for MMDS. This can be achieved through a
`PUT` request to the API server, before booting up the guest, with the path 
`/mmds/config`. An example of MMDS configuration is the following:

```json
{
"ipv4_address": "169.254.169.200"
}
```

The `ipv4_address` value must be a valid IPv4 address. The configured IPv4 address
can be used from within the microVM to issue `GET` requests  to the MMDS. An
example of MMDS request from within the guest might look like the following:

```bash
curl -s "http://169.254.169.200/latest/meta-data/ami-id"
```

Depending on which configured network interface a user wants to communicate
with the MMDS, an additional IP route is needed. E.g.:

```bash
ip route add 169.254.169.200 dev eth0
```

If MMDS configuration is not provided before booting up the guest, the MMDS
IPv4 address defaults to `169.254.169.254`.

### Example use case: credential rotation

For this example, the guest expects to find some sort of credentials (say, a
secret access key) by issuing a `GET` request to
`http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/credentials/secret-key`. Most similar
use cases will encompass the following sequence of steps:

1. Some agent running on the host sends a `PUT` request with the initial
   contents of the MMDS, using the Firecracker API. This most likely takes
   place before the microVM starts running, but may also happen at a later
   time. Guest MMDS requests which arrive prior to contents being available
   receive a *NotFound* response.
1. The contents are saved to the data store.
1. The guest sends a `GET` request for the secret key, which is intercepted by
   the device model.
1. The device model queries the data store, and gets the value associated with
   the key.
1. An HTTP response is assembled and sent back to the guest.

After a while, the host agent decides to rotate the secret key. It does so by
updating the data store with a new value. This can be done via a `PUT` request
to the `/mmds` API resource, which replaces everything, or with a `PATCH`
request that only touches the desired key. This effectively triggers the first
two steps again.

The guest reads the new secret key, going one more time through the last three
steps. This can happen after a notification from the host agent, or discovered
via periodic polling, or some other mechanism. Since access to the data store
is thread safe, the guest can only receive either the old version, or the new
version of the key, and not some intermediate state caused by the update.

## The data store

This is a global data structure, currently referenced using a global variable,
that represents the strongly-typed version of JSON-based user input describing
the MMDS contents. It leverages the recursive
[Value](https://docs.serde.rs/serde_json/value/enum.Value.html) type exposed by
`serde-json`. It can only be accessed from thread-safe contexts.

## Dumbo

The *Dumbo* HTTP/TCP/IPv4 network stack handles guest HTTP requests heading
towards *169.254.169.254*. Before going into *Dumbo* specifics, it's worth
going through a brief description of the Firecracker network device model.
Firecracker only offers Virtio-net paravirtualized devices to guests. Drivers
running in the guest OS use ring buffers in a shared memory area to communicate
with the device model when sending or receiving frames. The device model
associates each guest network device with a TAP device on the host.
Frames sent by the guest are written to the TAP fd, and frames read from the
TAP fd are handed over to the guest.

The *Dumbo* stack can be instantiated once for every network device, and is
disabled by default. It can be enabled by setting the value of the
`allow_mmds_requests` parameter to `true` in the API request body used to
attach a guest network device. Once enabled, the stack taps into the
aforementioned data path. Each frame coming from the guest is examined to
determine whether it should be processed by *Dumbo* instead of being written to
the TAP fd. Also, every time there is room in the ring buffer to hand over
frames to the guest, the device model first checks whether *Dumbo* has anything
to send; if not, it resumes getting frames from the TAP fd (when available).

We chose to implement our own solution, instead of leveraging existing
libraries/implementations, because responding to guest MMDS queries in the
context of Firecracker is amenable to a wide swath of simplifications.
First of all, we only need to handle `GET` requests, which require a bare-bones
HTTP 1.1 server, without support for most headers and more advanced features
like chunking. Also, we get to choose what subset of HTTP is used when building
responses. Moving lower in the stack, we are dealing with TCP connections over
what is essentially a point-to-point link, that seldom loses packets and does
not reorder them. This means we can do away with congestion control
(we only use flow control), complex reception logic, and support for most TCP
options/features. At this point, the layers below (Ethernet and IPv4) don't
involve much more than sanity checks of frame/packet contents.

*Dumbo* is built using both general purpose components (which we plan to offer
as part of one or more libraries), and Firecracker MMDS specific code. The
former category consists of various helper modules used to process streams of
bytes as protocol data units (Ethernet & ARP frames, IPv4 packets, and TCP
segments), a TCP handler which listens for connections while demultiplexing
incoming segments, a minimalist TCP connection endpoint implementation, and a
greatly simplified HTTP 1.1 server. The Firecracker MMDS specific code is found
in the logic which taps into the device model, and the component that parses an
HTTP request, builds a response based on MMDS contents, and finally sends back
a reply.

### MMDS Network Stack

Somewhat confusingly, this is the name of the component which taps the device
model. It has hardcoded IP (*169.254.169.254*) and MAC (*06:01:23:45:67:01*)
addresses. The latter is also used to respond to ARP requests. For every frame
coming from the guest, the following steps take place:

1. Apply a heuristic to determine whether the frame may contain an ARP request
   for the MMDS IP address, or an IPv4 packet heading towards the same address.
   There can be no false negatives. Frames that fail both checks are *rejected*
   (deferred to the device model for regular processing).
1. *Reject* invalid Ethernet frames. *Reject* valid frames if their EtherType
   is neither ARP, nor IPv4.
1. (**if EtherType == ARP**) *Reject* invalid ARP frames. *Reject* the frame if
   its target protocol address field is different from the MMDS IP address.
   Otherwise, record that an ARP request has been received (the stack only
   remembers the most recent request).
1. (**if EtherType == IPv4**) *Reject* invalid packets. *Reject* packets if
   their destination address differs from the MMDS IP address. *Drop* (stop
   processing without deferring to the device model) packets that do not carry
   TCP segments (by looking at the protocol number field). Send the rest to the
   inner TCP handler.

The current implementation does not support Ethernet 802.1Q tags, and does not
handle IP fragmentation. Tagged Ethernet frames are most likely going to be
deferred to the device model for processing, because the heuristics do not take
the presence of the tag into account. Moreover, their EtherType will not appear
to be of interest. Fragmented IP packets do not get reassembled; they are
treated as independent packets.

Whenever the guest is able to receive a frame, the device model first requests
one from the MMDS network stack associated with the current network device.

1. If an ARP request has been previously recorded, send an ARP reply and forget
   about the request.
1. If the inner TCP handler has any packets to transmit, wrap the next one into
   a frame and send it.
1. There are no MMDS related frames to send, so tell the device model to read
   from the TAP fd instead.

### TCP handler

Handles received packets that appear to carry TCP segments. Its operation is
described in the `dumbo` crate documentation. Each connection is associated
with an MMDS endpoint.

### MMDS endpoint

This component gets the byte stream from an inner TCP connection object,
identifies the boundaries of the next HTTP request, and parses it using an
HttpRequest object. For each valid `GET` request, the URI is used to identify
a key from the metadata store (like in the previous example), and a response is
built using the Firecracker implementation of HttpResponse logic, based on the
associated value, and sent back to the guest over the same connection. Each
endpoint has a fixed size receive buffer, and a variable length response buffer
(depending on the size of each response). TCP receive window semantics are used
to ensure the guest does not overrun the receive buffer during normal operation
(the connection has to drop segments otherwise). There can be at most one
response pending at any given time.

Here are more details describing what happens when a segment is received by an
MMDS endpoint (previously created when a SYN segment arrived at the TCP
handler):

1. Invoke the receive functionality of the inner connection object, and append
   any new data to the receive buffer.
1. If no response is currently pending, attempt to identify the end of the
   first request in the receive buffer. If no such boundary can be found, and
   the buffer is full, reset the inner connection (which also causes the
   endpoint itself to be subsequently removed) because the guest exceeded the
   maximum allowed request size.
1. If no response is pending, and we can identify a request in the receive
   buffer, parse it, free up the associated buffer space (also update the
   connection receive window), and build an HTTP response, which becomes the
   current pending response.
1. If a FIN segment was received, and there's no pending response, call `close`
   on the inner connection. If a valid RST is received at any time, mark the
   endpoint for removal.

When the TCP handler asks an MMDS endpoint for any segments to send, the
transmission logic of the inner connection is invoked, specifying the pending
response (when present) as the payload source.

### Connection

Connection objects are minimalist implementation of the TCP protocol. They are
used to reassemble the byte stream which carries guest HTTP requests, and to
send back segments which contain parts of the response. More details are
available in the `dumbo` crate documentation.
